An email notification from a job posting website flashed across my screen as I went to set my alarm for bed. They were offering nearly double what other companies were offering as well as full benefits. Not only that, but the job could be done remotely. It would seem like an answered prayer to anyone looking for this kind of job. There was no way they could be this lucky, right? After years of applying for jobs online, I knew exactly what kind of post this was. Despite news media claiming there to be a shortage of tech workers and a plethora of unfilled jobs, this is not the case. The majority of job postings online are junk posts, either made to legally satisfy some requirement from HR or the government (They already have someone in mind to hire before posting the job) or a scam of some kind (scraping personal information, fraud, impersonation, etc). This post was a scam, and out of curiosity I like to follow through with these to see their angle. 

They reached out about a day later, notifying me through a compromised or fake Bamboohr account that they wanted to move forward with an interview. The person gave their name as Mike Sunders. This person doesn't exist. It is likely a modification of a famous wrestler or a famous basketball player's name - Mike Sanders. One reason to slightly modify a famous name or even to use the same name is that a search engine won't return many results outside of that famous person which allows obscuration of the validity of their identity. I want to commend Bamboohr on their system monitoring and response time. When I called them after I was done following through with this scammer they notified me that the account in question was flagged and taken down with a few minutes of them sending me that initial email.

Mike Sunders wanted me to reach out to their hiring manger through Signal, an encrypted messaging service. The link they sent was the legitimate link to donwload signal, but I had already downloaded it. Regardless of the validity of a link sent to you, the best method to avoid malicious links is to go to the website directly over using the link. When a conversation is moved from email or text to an encrypted chat service without knowing this person or having a phone conversation with them, it is usually a red flag. There are many valid reasons to use encrypted chat services, but in this case the reason was likely to avoid any obvious text logs with the phone provider. 

The initial email had some grammatical errors as well as unidiomatic language that could be from a machine translation, which is another red flag that adds to this list. I went back and forth with the hiring manager, giving simple answers - mostly 'yes, no, okay' - and seeing how far they would let me go with such unenthusiastic responses. They responded in a manner to quick to type out what they sent, but despite this there were many errors in their wording. They sent me a link to look over their company website so that I could familiarize myself with the company.

At this point I should say that I already looked up the company. The company name was real, and belonged to a small private equity firm with 2-4 employees depending on which website you checked. The company had no web presence, and the fraudsters took advantage of that. They made a basic wix website for showing me and others. It was an obvious fake website, and it has since been taken down. The name of the company had 'partners' in it. The website they showed me had 'samplepartner.com' in the domain and the contact at the bottom of the page had a 'contact(at)samplepartners.com'. So if you went to the website with the 's' at the end of 'partner' you found a placeholder website used for the custom email. Why they had two websites like this, I am not sure, but they could have added some credibility to themselves if they used the one website that had the proper name. 

After five minutes of 'talking to HR' I was told I got the job and passed my interview. So if we pretend this all wasn't just one person, I have now been introduced to everyone in the company aside from the CEO. So now the question is, what is the purpose of their impersonation of this company? I have seen this kind of scam before, and what it is would be classified as mail and wire fraud. They wanted me to buy a specific list of hardware and software to start my job, and they wanted to send me a check in the mail to buy all of this. I had to be contactable as soon as it got there, and they overnighted the check. Some of these involve you cashing out the check and sending them the money for some reason. I didn't get to this point with them as I gave them a fake address. I checked the UPS tracking numbers and sure enough they overnighted me a package. I contacted the relevant authorities regarding this package and the contents. I was disappointed with the protocols in place for UPS to stop this as well as the resources available to the public to report these kinds of scams. 

It disgusts me how websites designed to help people find jobs are filled with junk posts. Eliciting false hope in a person seeking work, taking advantage of the desperate, and contributing to helplessness and despair when applications are sent out to a job that never existed or was never meant to be filled by someone using the site. 
